# Basic Router and Switch Configuration

We will be learning about basic configurations to put on our routers and switches

## Router Configuration

A Router provides connectivity between different IP subnets.
So Routers interfaces must be configued with IP addresses within that subnet. That interface will act as the default gateway for that subnet

To put an IP address on an interface we must first go to that interface in the command line

We will enter the interface

- interface F0/0 (from config t)

Then we enter the IP address and subnet mask

- 192.168.0.1 255.255.255.0

Then we enter the no shutdown command to bring the interface online. Interfaces are shutdown by default

- no shutdown

Next we must also configure another interface so that it can talk to another subnet.

- interface F0/1
- 192.168.1.1 255.255.255.0
- no shutdown

Now our two networks, 192.168.0.0 network and 192.168.1.0 network, can now communicate with each other.

## Switch Configuration

A layer 2 switch is not IP routing aware, but it does support a single IP address for management.
The IP address and subnet mask is configured on the Switched Virtual Interface (SVI) for the default VLAN 1.
A default gateway also needs to be configured to allow connectivity to other subnets

Because we need to configure the VLAN on the switch instead of pointing to a specific interface, we will be pointing to our VLAN that it belongs to

- interface vlan 1 (from config t)
- ip address 192.168.0.10 255.255.255.0
- no shutdown
- exit
- (config) # ip default-gateway 192.168.0.1

So in this example we basically followed the same steps for the router config, but at the end we have to assign a default gateway for our switch to forward traffic to a different subnet.


### Hostname configuration

In config t just type in the command _hostname_ followed by the hostname you want to give the device
- Hostname R1
- Hostname Switch 1

### Interface Descriptions

We will configure interface descriptions to see where the interface points to. We will enter the interface we want to add the description, then we will add the _description_ command followed by the description of what we want.

- interface f0/1
- description Link to R1
- show interfaces description OR show running-config interface f0/1

### Saving Changes

To save our changes for our devices, we will enter the command _copy running-config startup-config_
What we are essentially doing is copying the running-config (our current configuration that is stored in RAM, volatile memory) to our startup configuration (our configuration when we reboot, saved in NVRAM)


# Speed and Duplex

Interface speed and duplex is set to 'auto' by default. Both sides of the link should auto-negotiate to full duplex and the fastest available speed.
Best practice is to manually set the speed and duplex on ports which are connected to another entwork infrastructure device or server.
It is very important to set amtching speed and duplex settings on both side of the same link.
  
  - If one is set to Auto on one side and Manual on the other it may affect speeds.

## Commands for Speed and Duplex

Enter the interface that we are configuring

Then we can either set the duplex

Then we set the speed that we want in Mb

- Interface F0/1
- Duplex Full/Half/Auto
- Speed 10/100/1000

Verify the configurations

- Show running-config
  - Shows entire config on the device
- Show ip interface brief
  - Shows the status of the interfaces and which IP addresses are configured on that interface
- Show Run Interface f0/0 or VLAN1
  - Description of interface
  - Speed, duplex, and description that has been set
- Show Interface f0/0
  - Shows MAC address, IP address, traffic statistics as well.
  - Verify if traffic is passing through the interface
  - Will show input/output errors
- Show Interface Status
- Show version
  - Will show the version of the IOS
 
## CDP and LLDP

## CDP

Cisco Discovery Protocol is Layer 2 protocol and it is used to share information with other directly connected Cisco equipment, such as the OS version and IP address.

CDP aids in troubleshooting by allowing administrators map out how Cisco devices are connecte to each other.

CDP Commands

- In config t
  - _CDP Run_
     - This enables CDP. CDP should be automatically enabled
  - _No CDP Run_
     - This disables CDP
     - We can also disable CDP run on a single interface instead of the whole router
- When connected to an interface
  - _No CDP Enable_
    - Disabling on a specific interface
- _Show CDP_
  - Will show if it is enabled
- _Show CDP Neighbors_ and _Show CDP Neighbors Detail_
  - Summarized or detail view of the connected devices
 
## LLDP

Open standard protocl with similar information to CDP.

Some differences with CDP, is that LLDP can only discover up to one device per port and is only support on physical interfaces.

The command lines are similiar to CDP, just replace CDP with LLDP

- _LLDP Run_
- _No LLDP Run_
- _Show LLDP_
- _Show LLDP Neighbors_

- Interface configuration
  - _No LLDP Transmit_
    - Stop transmitting
  - _No LLDP Receive_
    - Stop receiving

