# RIP

Router Information Protocol is a distance vector routing protocol that uses hops as the metric. The maximum hop count is 15 so there is a scalability issue with RIP.

# RIPv2
- RIPv2 uses Multicast addressing vs RIPv1 that uses Broadcast traffic
- RIPv2 supports authentication, RIPv1 does not
- RIPv2 supports VLSM

# RIPng
RIP Next Generation which supports IPv6

# RIPv2 Configuration
You must be in global configuration mode to enable RIP

-_Router rip_
- Version 2
- network [Interface]
  - The network command should reference a classful network. No subnet mask is specified
 
# Auto-Summary
- RIP will automatically summarize routes to the classful boundary by default
- For example, 192.168.10.1/30 will be advertised as 192.168.10.0/24, 172.16.10.1/30 will be advertised as 172.16.0.0/16
- You can configure this to be turned off
  - router rip
  - no auto-summary
 
# Manual Summarization
The configuration is _Interface_ then _ip summary-address rip [Summary Network and Subnnet Mask]_

To verify any routing protocol use the command _Show ip protocols_

# Default Route Injection

This is where we have got a default static route going to the internet and we don't want to configure a default static route to every single router. So we will configure the final router that is connected to the internet, we will configure a default static route on that router. Then we will advertise it with RIP so that all the other internal routers will learn about it dynamically.

# EIGRP Characteristics and Configuration

- EIGRP is an _Advanced_ Distance Vector routing protocol
- It supports large networks
- It has very fast convergence time
- It supports bounded updates where network topology change updates are only sent to routers affected by the change and those messages are sent using multicast
- EIGRP will automatically perfomr equal cost load balancing on up to 4 paths by default
- EIGRP can also be configured to perform unequal cost load balancing
- EGIRP Metric is the 5k metric which consist of
  - Bandwidth
  - Load
  - Delay
  - Reliability
  - MTU

# EIGRP Configuration
- _Router EIGRP 100_
- The '100' in this configuration is the Autonomous System (AS), meaning an independent administrative domain. EIGRP routers need to have the same autonomous system number to peer with each other.
- So we can have two different EIGRP protocols with different AS numbers and they will only communicate with each other with the same AS numbers

- Network configuration
- _Router EIGRP 100_
- Network 10.0.0.0 0.0.255.255
  - The network command uses a wildcard mask which is the inverse of a subnet mask
  - Subtract each octet in the subnet mask from 255 to calculate the wildcard mask
  - Subnet mask of 255.255.255.252 = Wildcard mask of 0.0.0.3
- Wildcard Mask works like this
  - If a subnet mask is 255.255.255.0 the wildcard mask will be 0.0.0.255
  - The first three octets must be exact match for the network will the last octet can be anything
  - It will then advertise itself to the IP addresses
  - With a wildcard mask you can target a range of IP addresses (contiguous or not), in addition to just a subnet or single host. Subnet mask you can target a specific subnet.
  - Wild card mask provide more flexibility because the bits don't have to be contiguous
  - So instead of writing hundreds of individual rules for every IP address in a range, a single ACL rule with a wildcard mask can filter an entire block addresses.


It is recommended to use the loopback address as the Router ID for EIGRP. Router ID is how EIGRP identify themselves.
